
    Title:PLT Scheme v4.1.5
    Date:2009-03-22T01:29:00.001-04:00
    Tags:

*posted by Eli Barzilay*

PLT Scheme version 4.1.5 is now available from
  [http://plt-scheme.org/](http://plt-scheme.org/)

* Web Server:
    * new URL-based dispatching library `web-server/dispatch`,
    * customizable continuation serialization policies for the stateless web language `web-server/stuffers`,
    * abstraction of serve/servlet to build simpler dispatchers `web-server/servlet-env`,
    * HTTP Digest authentication support `web-server/http/digest-auth`,
    * built-in cookie support in `web-server/http/cookie` and `web-server/http/cookie-parse`,
    * highlighting and pretty-printing of errors in Xexpr constructions,
    * load control dispatcher for limit concurrent sessions `web-server/dispatchers/limit`.

* Scribble:
    * Literate programming is now available using the new `scribble/lp` language.
    * A new `at-exp` language makes it convenient to use the scribble reader's @-expressions for general code.
    * The `scribble/text` preprocessor language has been extended to deal with indentation and other formatting issues.
    * The "scribble" command-line tool accepts a `--pdf` flag to render PDFs (via pdflatex).

* DrScheme now provides feedback when PLaneT downloads and installs new packages.

* Units & Contracts:
    * Elements of unit signatures can now be associated with contracts via the `contracted` signature form.
    * A contract combinator for units, `unit/c`, has been added.
    * The new `with-contract` form provides a nestable submodule contract boundary, protecting a group of definitions from the surrounding code with contracts.
    * The `define/contract` form has been reworked and new define forms have been added: `define-struct/contract` and `define-unit/contract`.

* Language levels and teachpacks from the DeinProgramm project for the German textbook "Die Macht der Abstraktion" by Herbert Klaeren and Michael Sperber have been added.

* Misc:
    * Typed Scheme now comes with several more pre-wrapped libraries, found in the `typed` collection.
    * The `xml` and `html` collections are now contracted.
    * Binding parsing in net/cgi now interacts with `net/uri-codec`'s configuration parameters.
    * DrScheme captures logging output.
    * Check syntax: it is now possible to tack arrows crossing the currently selected text.
    * New `bitwise-bit-field` function.

* The usual pile of bugfixes.  (Notable: `scheme/package` works, `deflate` compression fixed, DrScheme language dialog issue resolved, `match` fixes, Windows networking, and much more.)


[Note that mirror sites can take a while to catch up with the new downloads.]

Feedback Welcome.

<!-- more -->



* * *

nice.  I'm new to scheme and using plt scheme to build a web prototype... 

After years of C++, I must say I love the language and environment.

I really appreciate the work you guys put into this - will be nice to have the url aliasing of this release.

— *gord, 22 March 2009*

* * *

We're glad you like it! I'd be very interested to know any of the problems you do have with the Web framework, because I might be able to make it even better.

— *Jay McCarthy, 22 March 2009*

* * *

Pretty cool stuff dude!

RT
www.Privacy-Center.net

— *Harold Fowler, 22 March 2009*

* * *

