
    Title:PLT Scheme v4.2.4
    Date:2010-01-28T21:40:00.001-05:00
    Tags:

*posted by Eli Barzilay*

PLT Scheme version 4.2.4 is now available from  [`http://plt-scheme.org/`](http://plt-scheme.org/)

* The `scheme/flonum` and `scheme/fixnum` libraries provide flonum- and fixnum-specific operations.  In the case of flonum-specific operations, the JIT compiler can recognize combinations of operations (including local bindings) and improve performance by "unboxing" intermediate results.
* The `scheme/unsafe/ops` library provides arithmetic and other operations that are implemented without dynamic checks.  Avoiding checks can sometimes improve performance, but at the expense of safety.
* `2htdp/universe`: We have severed the connection between universe and an image library and made a few other, minor changes.  Most programs will now have to change to require the `htdp/image` library explicitly.  For the full details, see the new [Porting World Programs](http://docs.plt-scheme.org/teachpack/2htdphtdp-port.html) section of the documentation.
* The `2htdp/image` library continues to grow.  In this release, it is supported by `2htdp/universe`, equality changed to be based on how the images are drawn, cropping and curves were added, and support for more kinds of pens were added.
* `htdp/world`: The old world teachpack remains deprecated.  HtDP/2e exclusively uses the new 2htdp/universe library.  For backwards compatibility, the world teachpack will remain in the distribution until the coming summer.
* The `scheme/class` library now provides `this%`, which refers to the class of the current object (i.e. `this`).
* `scheme/generator` has convenient functions for infinite generators, and for converting a generator to a sequence for iteration.
* PLT Scheme's add-on directory can be customized by the `$PLTADDONDIR` environment variable or `--addon`/`-A` command-line flags.  This controls where downloaded Planet packages and their compiled Scribble documentation are installed.
* Additional extensions include: saving `errno` in foreign calls, much improved `sort` speed, normalized results from `procedure-arity`, and more.