
    Title:PLT Scheme v4.2.5
    Date:2010-04-02T21:51:00.001-04:00
    Tags:

*posted by Eli Barzilay*

PLT Scheme version 4.2.5 is now available from  [`http://plt-scheme.org/`](http://plt-scheme.org/)

* PLT now supports multi-core parallelism via futures.  Futures create tasks that run in parallel, as long as the tasks stay in the "fast path" of the runtime system.  For more information, see [the guide](http://docs.plt-scheme.org/guide/performance.html?q=future#%28part._effective-futures%29).
* Our unit testing framework, schemeunit, is now included in the distribution.  A graphical test runner is available via `schemeunit/gui`.
* The support languages for the "Programming Languages: Application and Interpretation" textbook by Shriram Krishnamurthi are now part of PLT Scheme.  In addition the PLAI GC language comes with a random mutator generator (to help test collectors) and an improved heap visualizer.
* New Russian and Ukranian translations, thanks to Sergey Semerikov.
* A number of improvements to Redex's typesetting facilities.
* Typed Scheme users can now automatically generate predicates from types with `define-predicate`.  Typed code can be inserted in untyped modules by requiring `with-type` from `typed/scheme`.
* The `scheme/class` library now provides contract combinators for classes (`class/c`) and objects (`object/c`).  See the Reference and Guide for details.  Also, a backwards-compatible `object-contract` version of `object/c` has replaced the old `object-contract` combinator.
* Writing new kinds of contracts is now easier with keyword-based constructors (`make-contract` and `make-flat-contract`), a simpler set of structure properties (`prop:contract` and `prop:flat-contract`), and the introduction of blame objects for tracking contract metadata.
* The Scheme-implemented bytecode reader fails less often.  This is used by "mzc --decompile".  The Scheme-implemented bytecode writer uses the compact bytecode format and fails less often.  This may be used in the future for Scheme-implement bytecode processors.
* The language dialog now suggests using "#lang" more strongly as the default language.  DrScheme no longer uses the term `Module language'.

<!-- more -->



* * *

Just wondering...does the future hold a 64-bit version for OSX?

— *Robert, 2 April 2010*

* * *

