
    Title:Racket v5.1.1
    Date:2011-04-30T04:19:00.002-04:00
    Tags:

*posted by Eli Barzilay*

Racket version 5.1.1 is now available from  [http://racket-lang.org/](http://racket-lang.org/)

* The new `racket/stream` library provides `stream-first`, `stream-rest`, a lazy `stream-cons`, and so on.  Streams are a subtype of sequences, so they work in `for` forms.  Some sequence generators, such as `in-range`, now produce streams.  A `racket/sequence` library replaces the old `racket/stream` library.

* The new `racket/syntax` library contains facilities useful for writing macros.  The new `syntax/srcloc` and `syntax/location` libraries provide support for manipulating source locations.

* The `racket/gui` library now supports multi-column list boxes and scrolling panels.

* The new `ffi/file` library is useful for writing foreign library bindings that cooperate with Racket's security guard mechanism.

* Generators from the `racket/generator` library can now have formal arguments that are used when the generator is fired up.

* Single-precision floating-point support is now enabled by default.  Single-precision floats print differently from their default double-precision counterparts, new primitives convert between the two precisions, and new reader syntax supports single-precision literals.

* JIT improvements include a small change to aid x86 branch prediction on function-call returns, which can speed up some programs significantly.

* Typed Racket:

* The numeric tower has been entirely overhauled.  TR programs can now use more precise types than before, and check more numeric properties, such as sign or range properties.

* Fixnum optimizations have been improved and should apply more broadly.

* The performance of the typechecker has been improved.  In particular, dispatch on large union types should typecheck much faster than before.

* The Stepper can now step through Lazy Racket programs.

* The `racket/future` library includes `fsemaphore` values, the `future` primitive no longer freezes futures (so a future can spawn new futures), and `future` log messages are more informative.

* PLaneT development links are now version-specific.

* The `2htdp/image` library now includes `overlay/align`, `underlay/align`, `overlay/align/offset` and `underlay/align/offset`.

* The network protocol for universes in `2htdp/universe` has changed, so that v5.1.1 is incompatible with earlier versions.

* The "DrScheme" application (which simply ran DrRacket in the last few releases) has been removed.  The "MrEd" GUI executables for Windows and Mac OS X have also been removed, although the "mred" console executable remains for Unix and Mac OS X to support old scripts.

<!-- more -->



* * *

Are there plans to include a windows x86_64 version at some point?
Thanks!

— *deforce, 16 July 2011*

* * *

Yes, we now have a Windows x86_64 build.  You can try a nightly build (http://pre.racket-lang.org/installers) or wait for the next version which should be out very soon.

— *Eli Barzilay, 17 July 2011*

* * *

