
    Title:Racket v6.0.1
    Date:2014-05-08T16:46:00.002-04:00
    Tags:

*posted by Ryan Culpepper*

Racket version 6.0.1 is now available from



[http://racket-lang.org/](http://racket-lang.org/)





* A new `racket/undefined` library exports `undefined` as the value currently produced by

(letrec ([x x]) x)
This library anticipates a future where that expression will raise an exception. The `racket/undefined` library will continue to offer the `undefined` value as a bridge between versions and as a last resort.

* The drawing and GUI libraries provide improved support for high-resolution bitmaps and their use on Retina displays. For example, `read-bitmap` includes a `#:try-@2x?` option to trigger substitutions through the usual "@2x" naming convention.

* Check Syntax cooperates with Typed Racket to show arrows and other Check Syntax highlighting even when there is a type error.

* Functions provided via `contract-out` that have first-order contracts perform better.

* The contract boundary between typed/untyped modules is much less expensive. Typed Racket now avoids generating contracts for places where contracts failures cannot happen.

*  Occurrence typing now works better with `when`/`unless`. Example:

```racket
(let ((x (read)))
  (unless (number? x) (error 'bad-input))
  (add1 x))
```

* Types in Typed Racket are now pretty-printed.

* Function types can now be written in prefix style, which is now preferred and is used for printing. Infix function types are still accepted for backwards compatibility.

* A new `->*` type constructor is used for writing types for functions with optional and keyword arguments. The notation is similar to the matching contract combinator.

* Typed Racket forms do not have a `:` suffix by default now. For example, the `struct` form replaces `struct:`. The suffixed versions are all provided for backwards compatibility.

* Typed Racket now has preliminary support for classes and objects. However, it is still experimental and the APIs are subject to change.

* Type aliases in Typed Racket now support recursion and mutual recursion. For example, `(define-type (MyList X) (U Null (Pair X (MyList X))))` is now a valid type alias.

* Plot correctly renders intersecting 3D graphs and non-grid-aligned 3D rectangles.

* Elements in plots output in PDF/PS format have the same relative scale as in other formats. In particular, it is not necessary to adjust `plot-font-size` to make PDF plots look the same as PNG.



<!-- more -->



* * *

Racket blog ... Talk about Rackets !! I know some people running quite a rachet ! 

Ask Annabel 

— *IOnlyDealInMiracles, 24 May 2014*

* * *

Dear Annabel,

On a scale of 1 to 10, how rachet would you say you are?

Ben

— *Benjamin Greenman, 25 May 2014*

* * *

Please, provide PGP signatures for the installers and/or support download over SSL. I would not risk running an executable on my computer unless I can verify it's origin.

— *verduphs, 2 June 2014*

* * *

Funny. I came here from the old plt site and initially misread the redirection alert: "PLT is now a racket!"

— *Unknown, 19 June 2014*

* * *

