
    Title:Racket v6.1.1
    Date:2014-11-04T10:43:00.000-05:00
    Tags:

*posted by Ryan Culpepper*

Racket version 6.1.1 is now available from [http://racket-lang.org/](http://racket-lang.org/)



* The Mac OS X Yosemite compatibility problems are fixed. We bundled a patched Pango text-drawing library with Racket.

* The Windows [32-bit] releases fixes the window-update crashes. We bundled a patched Cairo drawing library with Racket.

* Typed Racket closes two safety holes in the exception system. The revised type system restricts `raise` to send only instances of the `exn` structure type and flat data to handlers. It also checks exception handlers properly. Note: Previously well-typed programs may fail to typecheck.

* Typed Racket's typed regions support casts and predicates.

* 2htdp/image's notion of equality ignores an image's baseline.

* The package manager supports a binary library installation mode, which allows users to install packages without source or documentation. Use the `--binary-lib` option with `raco pkg install`.

* The new drracket-tool-lib package factors out parts of DrRacket's IDE so that they can be reused with other editors, such as Emacs.

* The compiler's use-before-defined analysis has been repaired for certain forms of nested `letrec`, some `let` forms, and some uses of `set!` or `with-continuation-mark`.

* The compiler performs additional bytecode optimizations. Thanks to Gustavo Massaccesi.

* The CML library comes with a new `replace-evt` event constructor. Thanks to Jan Dvořák.

* Redex's benchmark suite comes with a description of the benchmark programs.

* Redex's metafunctions can be typeset using the "large left brace" notation for conditionals.

* The contract library comes with an improved `contract-stronger?`. Its error messages note that the contract itself might be wrong.

* The GUI library is DPI-aware on Windows.

* The openssl library supports Server Name Indication for servers. Thanks to Jay Kominek.

* The syntax/parse library allows the definition of new pattern forms via pattern expanders, similar to match expanders. Thanks to Alex Knauth.

* OpenGL on Linux no longer depends on libgtkgl, and core profiles are supported (see `set-legacy?`).

* The teaching languages' unit test framework supports `check-satisfied`, a construct for checking whether a result satisfies a predicate, e.g.:

`(check-satisfied (sort l) sorted?)`

Feedback Welcome