
    Title:Racket v6.7
    Date:2016-10-26T11:04:00.000-05:00
    Tags:

*posted by Vincent St-Amour*

Racket version 6.7 is now available from [http://racket-lang.org/](http://racket-lang.org/)

* Racket supports building graphical applications on Android through the `racket-android` project: https://github.com/jeapostrophe/racket-android

* The Racket REPL comes with line-editing, command and result history, and various meta-commands out of the box, via the `racket/interactive` module. See the `racket/interactive` and `xrepl` documentation for details.

* The package system supports authentication when installing packages from git, using the `raco pkg config git-checkout-credentials` configuration option.

* HTTP libraries, as well as `raco pkg`, support proxying via HTTP CONNECT.

* Typed Racket provides typed versions of `racket/os` and `racket/db/sqlite`.

* The `PLT_COMPILED_FILE_CHECK` environment variable provides more fine-grained control over when `.zo` files are consulted.

* The documentation search supports searching for `#lang`s and `#reader`s via the "L:" and "R:" search prefixes.

* The `file/glob` module implements globbing for path-strings.

* Optimizations in the bytecode compiler improve performance for structure, list, string, and byte-string operations.

The following people contributed to this release:

Alex Knauth, Alex Harsanyi, Alexis King, Andrew Kent, Asumu Takikawa, Ben Greenman, Brian Lachance, Chongkai Zhu, Daniel Feltey, Georges Dupéron, Gustavo Massaccesi, Jay McCarthy, John Clements, Jonathan Schuster, Leif Andersen, Marc Burns, Matthew Butterick, Matthew Flatt,
Matthias Felleisen, Mike Sperber, Robby Findler, Rohin Shah, Ryan Culpepper, Sam Tobin-Hochstadt, Spencer Florence, Stephen Chang, Stephen De Gabrielle, Tim Brown, Tony Garnock-Jones, Vincent St-Amour, WarGrey Gyoudmon Ju, and William J. Bowman.

Feedback Welcome

<!-- more -->

