    Title: Racket v7.6
    Date: 2020-02-13T15:40:51
    Tags:

*posted by John Clements*

Racket version 7.6 is now available from [https://racket-lang.org/](https://racket-lang.org/).

* DrRacket's scrolling has been made more responsive.

* DrRacket's dark mode support is improved for Mac OS and Unix.

* Racket CS is ready for production use. We will work to further
  improve Racket CS before making it the default implementation, but
  it now consistently passes all of our integration tests and
  generally performs well. (Compiled code remains significantly larger
  compared to the default implementation.)

* The Web Server provides fine-grained control over various aspects of
  handling client connections (timeouts, buffer sizes, maximum header
  counts, etc.) via the new "safety limits" construct.

  Using this new construct, we have decreased the web server's default
  level of trust in client connections and made it detect additional,
  maliciously constructed requests. Resource-intensive applications may
  need to adjust the default limits (for example, to accept large file
  uploads).  In trusted settings, they can be disabled completely by
  starting the web server with `#:safety-limits
  (make-unlimited-safety-limits)`.

* The Web Server's handling of large files is improved, and its
  latency for long-running request handlers is reduced.

* The Macro Stepper has a new macro hiding algorithm that tracks term
  identity through syntax protection (see `syntax-arm`), making macro
  hiding work more reliably. Its UI indicates protected and tainted
  syntax.

* The Racket documentation includes a "building and contributing" guide.

Contributors: Alex Harsanyi, Alex Knauth, Alex Muscar, Alexis King, Ben
Greenman, Bogdan Popa, Brian Wignall, Dan Holtby, David K. Storrs,
Dionna Glaze, Dominik Pantůček, Fred Fu, Geoff Shannon, Gustavo
Massaccesi, Jack Firth, Jay McCarthy, Jens Axel Søgaard, Jesse Alama,
Joel Dueck, John Clements, Jordan Johnson, Julien Delplanque, Leo Uino,
Luka Hadži-Đokić, Luke Lau, Matthew Flatt, Matthias Felleisen, Mike
Sperber, Paulo Matos, Philip McGrath, Reuben Thomas, Robby Findler, Ross
Angle, Ryan Culpepper, Sage Gerard, Sam Tobin-Hochstadt, Shu-Hung You,
Sorawee Porncharoenwase, Stephen De Gabrielle, Syntacticlosure, Timo
Wilken, Tommy McHugh, Winston Weinert, Zaoqi

