    Title: Racket v8.5
    Date: 2022-04-30T14:29:29
    Tags: release-announcement

Racket version 8.5 is now available from
[https://download.racket-lang.org](https://download.racket-lang.org).

As of this release:

* Racket's new `-y` flag automatically keeps compiled files up to date,
  reducing subsequent load times.

* Error-message realms allow Racket-hosted languages to adapt and
  rewrite error messages to make sense in a particular context.

* Nonprivileged users can control package installation scope using an
  "other-version" directory in the addon-dir.

* Racket CS runs on platforms where native-code generation is not
  currently supported (e.g., s390x or ppc64). See "README.txt" in the
  source distribution for more information on the --enable-pb flag to
  configure.

* DrRacket's new 'Reopen Closed Tab' file menu item will open previously
  closed tabs.

* Typed Racket has support for the `xml` library; use `typed/xml`.

* Rackunit reports source locations for failed test cases in the
  Typed Racket language.

* Plot has violin plots and improved box-and-whisker plots.

* Boxes are supported alongside lists, vectors etc. in place-channel
  messages.

* Those who manually configure Racket CS to use Zlib compression for
  compiled code should be aware of CVE-2018-25032; the next release and
  the current snapshot builds use a newer, safer version of zlib.

* The release includes many other repairs and changes!

The following people contributed to this release:

Alex Harsányi, Alexander Shopov, Alexis King, Andrew Mauer-Oats, Ben
Greenman, Benedek Szilvasy, Bert De Ketelaere, Bogdan Popa, Cameron Moy,
Chung-chieh Shan, Fred Fu, Gustavo Massaccesi, J. Ryan Stinnett, Jamie
Taylor, Joel Dueck, John Clements, Joseph Griego, Khadija Sidhpuri,
Laurent Orseau, Maciej Barć, Matthew Flatt, Matthias Felleisen, Mike
Sperber, Noah Ma, Philip McGrath, Robby Findler, Ryan Culpepper, Sam
Tobin-Hochstadt, Sorawee Porncharoenwase, Stephen De Gabrielle, Tim
Jervis, and Trevor Paley

Link to package regressions issue for the 8.5 release:
[https://github.com/racket/racket/issues/4202](https://github.com/racket/racket/issues/4202)


