    Title: Racket v8.13
    Date: 2024-05-17T11:41:54
    Tags: DRAFT

----------------------------------------------------------------------

- The racket/treelist and racket/mutable-treelist libraries provide
  list-like containers that support many operations in effectively
  constant time, including appending and extracting sub-lists without
  mutating the given list. Treelists are implemented as RRB Vectors,
  invented by Stucki, Riompf, Ureche, and Bagwell.

(see https://docs.racket-lang.org/reference/treelist.html#(part._treelist)
 and https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/2784731.2784739 )
 
- The `hash-filter-keys` and `hash-filter-values` functions allow users
  to filter hashes using a predicate on either keys or values.

(see https://docs.racket-lang.org/reference/hashtables.html#%28def._%28%28lib._racket%2Fhash..rkt%29._hash-filter-keys%29%29 )

- The `vector-extend` and `vector*-extend` functions provide a way
  to pre-populate the prefix of a newly allocated vector using the elements
  of an existing vector.

(see https://docs.racket-lang.org/reference/vectors.html#%28def._%28%28lib._racket%2Fvector..rkt%29._vector-extend%29%29 )

- Command-line raco setup, package update, and package installation use
  terminal control (when available) to show what they are working on
  more compactly and with a progress bar.

- Racket v8.13 uses Unicode 15.1 for character and string operations.

- Machine-specific cross-module optimization allows improved support for
  static generation of foreign-function bindings.

- The scribble/acmart language uses v2.01, which avoids errors
  concerning the hyperref package in some latex installations.

The following people contributed to this release:

Alec Mills, Ben Greenman, Bob Burger, Bogdan Popa, dr-neptune, Fred Fu,
Gustavo Massaccesi, Jason Hemann, Jay McCarthy, John Clements, Jordan
Johnson, Justin Dhillon, Mao Yifu, Matias Eyzaguirre, Matthew Flatt,
Matthias Felleisen, Mike Sperber, olopierpa, Oscar Waddell, Pavel
Panchekha, Philip McGrath, Robby Findler, Sam Phillips, Sam
Tobin-Hochstadt, Siddhartha Kasivajhula, Sorawee Porncharoenwase,
Stephen De Gabrielle, Tim Standen, William E. Byrd, and Wing Hei Chan.

----------------------------------------------------------------------


<!-- more -->

