    Title: Racket v8.14
    Date: 2024-08-14T13:13:03
    Tags: DRAFT
    Author: John Clements, Stephen De Gabrielle


*posted by Stephen De Gabrielle*

----------------------------------------------------------------------

- 64-bit ARM Windows is one of the standard pre-built downloads.

- The `compiler/demod` language integrates demodularization into the
  program rather than an external tool. Using the language approach
  cooperates with other Racket tools and allows demodularization to be
  used on libraries. Additionally, demodularization handles submodules
  and can prune definitions, significantly shrinking the size of some
  programs.

- The `contract-in` form enables contracts to be specified in an
  importing module.

- The `#%declare` form supports the `#:flatten-requires` and
  `#:unlimited-compile` keywords

- Identifiers such as `case-λ`, `match-λ` and `λ` are equivalent to
  their Latin-alphabet equivalents (`case-lambda`, `match-lambda`, and
  `lambda`) in more contexts, including uses of `match`.

- The `hash-filter` function allows the use of a predicate to select a
  sub-table of a hash table.

- The module browser can perform filtering on submodules.

- The `raco test` command-line form respects the
  `current-test-invocation-directory` parameter, and shows well-formed
  module paths in its output.

- Racket CS allows the use of in-memory boot files.

- The `raco/testing` collection brings together a variety of testing-
  related functions and forms.

- This release also includes many bug-fixes and documentation updates!

- NOTE: This release (and version 8.13) have a known build problem that
  affects the builtpkgs source bundle on Windows. In order to avoid this
  problem, use a pre-built bundle or build using a source bundle other
  than the "builtpkgs" one. Nightly builds do not suffer from this
  problem.

The following people contributed to this release:

Alex Knauth, Alexander Shopov, Ben Greenman, Bert De Ketelaere, Bob
Burger, Bogdan Popa, Cadence Ember, Carl Gay, D. Ben Knoble, Gregory
Rosenblatt, Gustavo Massaccesi, John Clements, John Sullivan, Jordan
Johnson, luistung, Matthew Flatt, Matthias Felleisen, Noah Ma, Philip
McGrath, Robby Findler, Ryan Culpepper, Sam Tobin-Hochstadt, Sergey
Fedorov, Sorawee Porncharoenwase, Wing Hei Chan, and ZhangHao.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

